Create python sdk (#1)
eclipse-ankaios/ank-sdk-python: docs/source/getting_started.rst

Getting started
===============

For installation of the Ankaios SDK, see the `Installation section <index.html#installation>`_.

> Once the SDK is installed, you can start using it by importing the module and creating an ankaios object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the SDK is installed, you can start using it by importing the module and creating an Ankaios object.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from ankaios import Ankaios

    ankaios = Ankaios()

The initialization of the Ankaios object will automatically connect to the fifo pipes of the control interface. Once this is done,

> the communication with the Ankaios ecosystem can be started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the communication with the Ankaios cluster can be started.
```

Author: Done.

**Apply a manifest**
--------------------

> Considering we have a manifest file with a workload called ``nginx_test`` and a config called ``test_ports``. The manifest file is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Considering we have the following manifest file with a workload called ``nginx_test`` and a config called ``test_ports``:
```

Author: Done.

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: my_manifest.yaml

    apiVersion: v0.1
    workloads:
        nginx_test:
            runtime: podman
            restartPolicy: NEVER
            agent: agent_A
            configs:
                ports: test_ports
            runtimeConfig: |

>                 image: image/test

Reviewer: The `ports` config is not used in the runtimeConfig. Maybe we should omit the configs here to have a minimal example that is easy to understand.

Author: Alright. Done.

    configs:
        test_ports:
            port: \"8081\"

The manifest can now be applied using the following code:

.. code-block:: python

    from ankaios import Ankaios, Manifest

    # Create an Ankaios object
    ankaios = Ankaios()

    # Load the manifest from the file
    manifest = Manifest.from_file('my_manifest.yaml')

    # Apply the manifest and get the result
    ret = ankaios.apply_manifest(manifest)

    # Get the workload instance name
    wl_instance_name = ret["added_workloads"][0]

    # Print the instance name
    print(wl_instance_name)

> If the operation is succesfull, the result will contain a list with the added workloads that contains the workload instance name of our own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the operation is succesfull, the result will contain a list with the added workloads that contains the workload instance name of our own.
```
```suggestion
If the operation is successful, the result will contain a list with the added workloads that contains the workload instance name of the newly added workload.
```

Author: Done.

> The workload instance name contains the name of the workload, the agent it is running on and an unique identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workload instance name contains the name of the workload, the agent it is running on and a unique identifier.
```

Author: Done.

**Update a workload**
---------------------

> Considering we have the above workload running, we can update certain parameters of the workload. For this example, we will update the `restartPolicy`. To be able to pinpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Considering we have the above workload running, we can now modify it. For this example we will update the `restartPolicy`. To be able to pinpoint
```

Author: Done.

> the exact workload we want to modify, we must know the workload instance name. This can be obtained as a result when starting the workload (either using `apply_manifest` or other methods),
> deleting or modifying one. In case we don't have the workload instance name, we can take all the workloads that have the same name as the one we are looking for (or the agent).
> For simplicity, we will consider that the workload instance name is known.

Reviewer: Let's keep it simple: ```suggestion
the exact workload we want to modify, we must know the workload instance name. This can be obtained as a result when starting the workload, deleting or modifying one.
For simplicity, we will consider that the workload instance name is known.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from ankaios import Ankaios

    # Create an Ankaios object
    ankaios = Ankaios()

    # Considering we have the workload instance name

>     wl_instance_name = WorkloadInstanceName(...)

Reviewer: Can we create an instance name from a string here? Maybe it would be easier to understand.

Author: This needs to be changed.

    ret = workload.update_restart_policy("ALWAYS")

    # Unpack the result
    added_workloads = ret["added_workloads"]
    deleted_workloads = ret["deleted_workloads"]

Depending on the updated parameter, the workload can be restarted or not. If this is the case, the `deleted_workloads` will contain the old instance name and 
the `added_workloads` will contain the new one.

**Get the state of a workload**
-------------------------------

Having a workload running in the Ankaios system, we can retrieve the state of the workload. The state has two fields, a primary state and a substate (See `Workload States <workload_state.html>`_).
Using the workload instance name, we can get the state of our specific workload.

.. code-block:: python

    from ankaios import Ankaios

    # Create an Ankaios object
    ankaios = Ankaios()

    # Considering we have the workload instance name
    wl_instance_name = WorkloadInstanceName(...)

    # Get the workload state based on the instance name
    execution_state = ankaios.get_execution_state_for_instance_name(wl_instance_name)

    # Output the state
    print(execution_state.state)
    print(execution_state.substate)

>     print(execution_state.info)

Reviewer: Don't forget to switch to `additional_info` here too.

Author: Done.

If the workload instance name is not known, the state can be retrieved using the workload name or the agent name. This will return a
`WorkloadStateCollection <workload_state.html#workloadstatecollection-class>`_ that contains all the workload states that match.

**Get the complete state**

> --------------------------

Reviewer: Maybe we should reorder a bit as follows:
* apply manifest
* get workload state
* get complete state
* update workload 
* delete workload

Author: * apply manifest and get state
* get complete state
* update workload
* delete workload

Author: Done.

The complete state of the Ankaios system can be retrieved using the `get_state` method of the `Ankaios` class:

.. code-block:: python

    from ankaios import Ankaios

    # Create an Ankaios object
    ankaios = Ankaios()

    # Get the complete state
    complete_state = ankaios.get_state()

    # Output the state
    print(complete_state)

The complete state contains information regarding the workloads running in the Ankaios cluster, configurations and agents. The state can be filtered using filter masks
(See `get_state <ankaios.html#ankaios_sdk.ankaios.Ankaios.get_state>`_).

**Delete a workload**
---------------------

> To delete a workload, there are multiple methods. We can either use the same manifest that we used to start it and call `delete_manifest` with it or we can
> delete the workload based on its name. In this example, we will delete the workload using the manifest. Considering the same manifest as before (`my_manifest.yaml <getting_started.html#id1>`_):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple methods to delete a workload: we can either use the same manifest that we used to start it and call `delete_manifest` or we can
delete the workload based on its name. In this example, we will delete the workload using the manifest. Considering the same manifest as before (`my_manifest.yaml <getting_started.html#id1>`_):
```

Author: Done.

.. code-block:: python

    from ankaios import Ankaios, Manifest

    # Create an Ankaios object
    ankaios = Ankaios()

    # Load the manifest from the file
    manifest = Manifest.from_file('my_manifest.yaml')

    # Delete the manifest (this will delete the workload contained in the manifest)
    ret = ankaios.delete_manifest(manifest)

    # Get the workload instance name
    wl_instance_name = ret["deleted_workloads"][0]

    # Print the instance name of the deleted workload
    print(wl_instance_name)

Notes
-----

> * Exceptions might be raised during the usage of the sdk. For this, please consult the `Exceptions section <exceptions.html>`_ for a complete list.
> * For any issue or feature request, please see the `Contributing section <contributing.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Exceptions might be raised during the usage of the SDK. Please consult the `Exceptions section <exceptions.html>`_ for a complete list.
* For any issue or feature request, please see the `Contributing section <contributing.html>`_.
```

Author: Done.

The complete state contains information regarding the workloads running in the Ankaios cluster, configurations and agents. The state can be filtered using filter masks
(See `get_state <ankaios.html#ankaios_sdk.ankaios.Ankaios.get_state>`_).

**Update a workload**
---------------------

Considering we have the above workload running, we can now modify it. For this example we will update the ``restartPolicy``. To be able to pinpoint
the exact workload we want to modify, we must know only it's name. 

.. code-block:: python

    from ankaios import Ankaios

    # Create an Ankaios object
    ankaios = Ankaios()

    # Get the workload based on the name

>     workload = ankaios.get_workload("nginx")

Reviewer: Can we also rename the workload in the example manifest to `nginx` to reduce confusion.
